---
template: main.html
---

# Iter8 Github Action

The `load-test-http` experiment can be invoked as part of a GitHub Actions workflow using [the Iter8 Action](https://github.com/iter8-tools/iter8-action).

## Basic Example

The following example demonstrates the use of the Iter8 Action to benchmark and validate a HTTP service. This is the GitHub Actions equivalent of the [CLI-driven basic HTTP example](basicusage.md#basic-example).

```yaml
# An earlier step in the workflow is assumed to have started the HTTP service
# Configure experiment using a YAML file
- run: |
    cat << EOF > myvalues.yaml
        url: http://127.0.0.1/get
    EOF
# Run Iter8 experiment
- uses: iter8-tools/iter8-action@v1
  with:
    chart: load-test-http
    valuesFile: myvalues.yaml
```

## Experiment configuration

The [basic usage tutorial](basicusage.md) describes various configurable parameters of the `load-test-http` experiment. Their default values are documented in the chart's `values.yaml` file and can be viewed as follows.

```shell
iter8 hub -c load-test-http
cat load-test-http/values.yaml
```

## Automated SLO validation

You can specify [service-level objectives (SLOs)](basicusage.md#metrics-and-slos) as part of the `load-test-http` experiment. If the SLOs are not satisfied, then the action will fail. You can disable this behavior by setting the `validateSLOs` input to `false`.

```yaml
- uses: iter8-tools/iter8-action@v1
  with:
    chart: load-test-http
    valuesFile: myvalues.yaml
    validateSLOs: false
```

## Logging

The Iter8 Action logs contain the following.

- output of `iter8 version`
- the `experiment.yaml` file generated by Iter8
- logs from the experiment run
- output of `iter8 report`
- output of `iter8 assert -c completed -c nofailures -c slos`

## Complete example

A complete GitHub Actions workflow which exercises the Iter8 Action using the `load-test-http` experiment is available as part of [the Iter8 docs repo](https://github.com/iter8-tools/docs). Run this example as follows.

1. Fork the Iter8 docs repo: <https://github.com/iter8-tools/docs> to your organization, *myorg*.

2. If necessary, enable workflows on the your forked repository (by navigating to <https://github.com/myorg/docs/actions>).

3. Run the workflow:

    - Navigate to the **Actions** tab of your forked repository: <https://github.com/myorg/docs/actions>.
    - Select the workflow **end-to-end tests**.
    - Click the **Run workflow** button.

4. When the workflow has completed, there will be a new entry for the execution. Select the latest, then the entry for the **local httpbin tests** job. The log for each execution of the Iter8 action, can be inspected by inspecting the steps labeled *Run iter8-tools/iter8-action@v1*.

## Iter8 Action inputs

The list of inputs that can be configured for the Iter8 GitHub Action is documented [here](https://github.com/iter8-tools/iter8-action#action-inputs).
